---
title: What is a Beacon?
---

<TitleSpan>Beacons</TitleSpan>

# {{$frontmatter.title}}

<TocHeader />
<TOC class="table-of-contents" :include-level="[2,3]" />

Beacons are first-party Web3 data feeds run by the API data providers
themselves, without third-party oracle nodes as middlemen. Beacons allow smart
contract developers to connect their Web3 applications to continuously updated
streams of off-chain data, such as the latest cryptocurrency, stock and
commodities prices. They can power various decentralized applications, such as
DeFi lending, synthetic assets, stable coins, derivatives, insurance, NFTs and
more. Operated by the marketâ€™s most trusted and reliable data providers, Beacons
are a transparent, cost efficient and scalable way for smart contracts to
connect to the data that they need.

To achieve a completely transparent and secure design, Beacons are operated
directly by the API provider of the data they serve, without third-party node
operators used as data relayers. This means that when calling a Beacon for the
latest price of an asset, your smart contract receives a value directly from the
Web3-enabled API of the source data provider - not a third-party or a network of
third party middlemen.

The provider-operated nature of Beacons allows any dApp to consider the
off-chain reputation of the data provider and their suitability for your use
case. Bringing this level of transparency to the source of data in smart
contracts gives dApp developers confidence rather than relying on a pseudonymous
selection of third parties.

## Simple Implementation

The Beacon Server contract (_RrpBeaconServer.sol_) maintains a cache of on-chain
Beacon values readily available for smart contracts to retrieve instantly as
illustrated in figure below. A Beacon is updated when a pre-defined tolerance of
the Beacon's value is detected. Each Beacon has its own configuration for
updates. See the [readBeacon()](./functions/read-beacon.md) function doc and
learn how your smart contract can access a Beacon .

> ![dapp-beacon.png](./assets/images/dapp-beacon.png)

## Airnode Enabled

Making it all work is a simple and efficient system that leverages first-party
Airnodes to keep individual Beacon values up-to-date. When a Beacon's value
falls outside a pre-defined tolerance it self-updates by calling its associated
Airnode.

In the figure below, on-chain Beacons request updates from their linked
off-chain Airnode. The Airnode's owner (an API provider) configures the
pre-defined tolerance of a Beacon's value as well as the frequency to check for
tolerance deviation. The Beacon's value is updated when the off-chain value
falls outside the Beacons value's defined tolerance. Note that a Airnode can be
related to more than one Beacon.

> ![beacon-airnode.png](./assets/images/beacon-airnode.png)

## dAPIs (Building on Beacons)

dAPIs are an on-chain component of aggregated Beacon values.

::: warning Under Development

dAPIs are under development for release in the near future.

:::

A dAPI will consume data from Beacons in order to provide an aggregate value.
For example, there could be a dAPI for the ETH/USD price where it fetches
different prices from multiple beacons like a coingecko ETH/USD beacon, a
binance ETH/USD beacon and so on. The dAPI will aggregate and provide a value
for the ETH/USD pair.

A dApp would call a dAPI much like they would call a Beacon to get an instant
response.
